A comparator is an important arithmetic component in a digital circuit. This is because sorting (done by a comparator) is one of the most important problems in computer engineering/science. To compare two numbers, the circuit must have 2n inputs and 22n entries in the truth table. Thus, for 4-bit comparator, the inputs will be 2x4 = 8 inputs and the entries in the truth table will be 22x4 = 28 = 256.For 10 bit comparator there are 2x10=20 inputs and 22x10=1048576.By designing a 10 bit comparator by cascading the three 4 bit comparator , I started learning from the basic of the comparator (1 bit comparator) and the different methods to construct them using different logical circuits and different gates.This project enabled me to implement a same circuit in different ways. Initially I tried to implement the 10 bit comparator using XNOR gates directly ,I found many bugs in the output during simulation.So I started investigating and learning new methods to implement the same XNOR gate using other basic gates and the Universal gates .Among which I found the implementation of XNOR gate using NOR gate in the 10 bit cooperator more effective with no bugs,this made me realize that the use of XNOR and XOR gate have resulted in bugs when simulated in the Electric Software. I found that this tool is easy to access and helps in easy simulation by using simple methods that could be easily understood.
 I started learning new thing about this Electric Software that enables us to choose from wide range of options from designing tools. As we wanted to obtain the complete knowledge of the project (10 bit comparator) we instead of dividing the project in to three part ,each one of us did a complete 10 bit comparator using three different methods including the schematic, layout and simulation for each of the three 10 bit comparator and compared them with each other to conclude the best circuit with minimum delay to be used in a particular system.
I designed the schematic, layout and simulation for the 10 bit comparator using the XNOR gate.I succeeded in implementing this circuit with minimum number of transistors. So, if the users intention is to reduce the number of Transistors then my approach to build a comparator can be used.
The file Named 10-Bit_comparator has the file containing Schematic and Layout of a 10-bit Comparator .
